1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose 
This SRS describes the software functional and nonfunctional requirements for release 1.0 of the Cafeteria Ordering System (COS). This document is intended to be used by the members of the project team that will implement and verify the correct functioning of the system. Unless otherwise noted, all requirements specified here are high priority and committed for release 1.0.
1.2 Project Scope and Product Features
The Cafeteria Ordering System will permit Process Impact employees to order meals from the company cafeteria on-line to be delivered to specified campus locations. A detailed project description is available in the Cafeteria Ordering System Vision and Scope Document [1]. The section in that document titled “Scope of Initial and Subsequent Releases” lists the features that are scheduled for full or partial implementation in this release.
1.3 References
1. Wiegers, Karl. Cafeteria Ordering System Vision and Scope Document, www.processimpact.com/projects/COS/COS_vision_and_scope.doc
2. Wiegers, Karl. Process Impact Intranet Development Standard, Version 1.3, www.processimpact.com/corporate/standards/PI_intranet_dev_std.doc
3. Zambito, Christine. Process Impact Business Rules Catalog, www.processimpact.com/corporate/policies/PI_business_rules.doc
4. Zambito, Christine. Process Impact Internet Application User Interface Standard, Version 2.0, www.processimpact.com/corporate/standards/PI_internet_ui_std.doc
2. Overall Description
2.1 Product Perspective
The Cafeteria Ordering System is a new system that replaces the current manual and telephone processes for ordering and picking up lunches in the Process Impact cafeteria. The context diagram in Figure 1 illustrates the external entities and system interfaces for release 1.0. The system is expected to evolve over several releases, ultimately connecting to the Internet ordering services for several local restaurants and to credit and debit card authorization services.
2.2 User Classes and Characteristics
Patron (favored)
A Patron is a Process Impact employee at the corporate campus in Clackamas, Oregon, who wishes to order meals to be delivered from the company cafeteria. There are about 600 potential Patrons, of which an estimated 400 are expected to use the Cafeteria Ordering System an average of 4 times per week each (source: current cafeteria usage data). Patrons will sometimes order multiple meals for group events or guests. An estimated 90 percent of orders will be placed using the corporate Intranet, with 10 percent of orders being placed from home. All Patrons have Intranet access from their offices. Some Patrons will wish to set up meal subscriptions, either to have the same meal to be delivered every day or to have the day’s meal special delivered automatically. A Patron must be able to override a subscription for a specific day.

Cafeteria Staff
The Process Impact cafeteria currently employs about 20 Cafeteria Staff, who will receive orders from the Cafeteria Ordering System, prepare meals, package them for delivery, print delivery instructions, and request delivery. Most of the Cafeteria Staff will need to be trained in the use of the computer, the Web browser, and the Cafeteria Ordering System.

Menu Manager
The Menu Manager is a cafeteria employee, perhaps the cafeteria manager, who is responsible for establishing and maintaining daily menus of the food items available from the cafeteria and the times of day that each item is available. Some menu items may not be available for delivery. The Menu Manager will also define the cafeteria’s daily specials. The Menu Manager will need to edit the menus periodically to reflect planned food items that are not available or price changes.

Meal Deliverer
As the Cafeteria Staff prepare orders for delivery, they will print delivery instructions and issue delivery requests to the Meal Deliverer, who is either another cafeteria employee or a contractor. The Meal Deliverer will pick up the food and delivery instructions for each meal and deliver it to the Patron. The Meal Deliverers’ primary interactions with the system will be to reprint the delivery instructions on occasion and to confirm that a meal was (or was not) delivered.
2.3 Operating Environment
OE-1:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall operate with the following Web browsers: Microsoft Internet Explorer versions 5.0 and 6.0, Netscape Communicator version 4.7, and Netscape versions 6 and 7.
OE-2:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall operate on a server running the current corporate approved versions of Red Hat Linux and Apache WebServer.
OE-3:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall permit user access from the corporate Intranet and, if a user is authorized for outside access through the corporate firewall, from an Internet connection at the user’s home.
2.4 Design and Implementation Constraints
CO-1:	The system’s design, code, and maintenance documentation shall conform to the Process Impact Intranet Development Standard, Version 1.3 [2].
CO-2:	The system shall use the current corporate standard Oracle database engine.
CO-3:	All HTML code shall conform to the HTML 4.0 standard.
CO-4:	All scripts shall be written in Perl.
2.5 User Documentation
UD-1:	The system shall provide an online hierarchical and cross-linked help system in HTML that describes and illustrates all system functions.
UD-2:	The first time a new user accesses the system and on user demand thereafter, the system shall provide an online tutorial to allow users to practice ordering meals using a static tutorial menu. The system shall not store meals ordered using this template in the database or place orders for such meals with the cafeteria.
2.6 Assumptions and Dependencies
AS-1:	The cafeteria is open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner every company business day in which employees are expected to be on site.
DE-1:	The operation of the COS depends on changes being made in the Payroll System to accept payment requests for meals ordered with the COS.
DE-2:	The operation of the COS depends on changes being made in the Cafeteria Inventory System to update the availability of food items as COS orders are accepted.
3. System Features
3.1 Order Meals
3.1.1	Description and Priority
A cafeteria Patron whose identity has been verified may order meals either to be delivered to a specified company location or to be picked up in the cafeteria. A Patron may cancel or change a meal order if it has not yet been prepared. Priority = High.
3.1.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences
Stimulus:	Patron requests to place an order for one or more meals.
Response:	System queries Patron for details of meal(s), payment, and delivery instructions.
Stimulus:	Patron requests to change a meal order.
Response:	If status is “Accepted,” system allows user to edit a previous meal order.
Stimulus:	Patron requests to cancel a meal order.
Response:	If status is “Accepted, ”system cancels a meal order.
3.1.3	Functional Requirements
Order.Place:	The system shall let a Patron who is logged into the Cafeteria Ordering System place an order for one or more meals.
Order.Place.Register:	The system shall confirm that the Patron is registered for payroll deduction to place an order.
Order.Place.Register.No	If the Patron is not registered for payroll deduction, the system shall give the Patron options to register now and continue placing an order, to place an order for pickup in the cafeteria (not for delivery), or to exit from the COS.
Order.Place.Date:	The system shall prompt the Patron for the meal date (see BR-8).
Order.Place.Date.Cutoff:	If the meal date is the current date and the current time is after the order cutoff time, the system shall inform the patron that it’s too late to place an order for today. The Patron may either change the meal date or cancel the order.
Order.Deliver.Select:	The Patron shall specify whether the order is to be picked up or delivered.
Order.Deliver.Location:	If the order is to be delivered and there are still available delivery times for the meal date, the Patron shall provide a valid delivery location.
Order.Deliver.Notimes:	The system shall notify the Patron if there are no available delivery times for the meal date. The Patron shall either cancel the order or indicate that the Patron will pick up the order in the cafeteria.
Order.Deliver.Times:	The system shall display the remaining available delivery times for the meal date. The system shall allow the Patron to request one of the delivery times shown, to change the order to be picked up in the cafeteria, or to cancel the order.
Order.Menu.Date:	The system shall display a menu for the specified date.
Order.Menu.Available:	The menu for the current date shall display only those food items for which at least one unit is available in the cafeteria’s inventory.
Order.Units.Food:	The system shall allow the Patron to indicate the number of units of each menu item that he wishes to order.
Order.Units.Multiple:	The system shall permit the user to order multiple identical meals, up to the fewest available units of any menu item in the order.
Order.Units.TooMany:	If the Patron orders more units of a menu item than are presently in the cafeteria’s inventory, the system shall inform the Patron of the maximum number of units of that food item that he can order.
Order.Units.Change:	If the available inventory cannot fulfill the number of units ordered, the Patron may change the number of units ordered, change the number of identical meals being ordered, or cancel the meal order.
Order.Confirm.Display:	When the Patron indicates that he does not wish to order any more food items, the system shall display the food items ordered, the individual food item prices, and the payment amount, calculated per BR-12.
Order.Confirm.Prompt:	The system shall prompt the Patron to confirm the meal order.
Order.Confirm.Not:	If the Patron does not confirm the meal order, the Patron may either edit or cancel the order.
Order.Confirm.More:	The system shall let the Patron order additional meals for the same or for different date. BR-3 and BR-4 pertain to multiple meals in a single order.
Order.Pay.Method:	When the Patron indicates that he is done placing orders, the system shall ask the user to select a payment method.
Order.Pay.Deliver:	See BR-11.
Order.Pay.Pickup:	If the meal is to be picked up in the cafeteria, the system shall let the Patron choose to pay by payroll deduction or by paying cash at the time of pickup.
Order.Pay.Details:	The system shall display the food items ordered, payment amount, payment method, and delivery instructions.
Order.Pay.Confirm:	The Patron shall either confirm the order, request to edit the order, or request to cancel the order.
Order.Pay.Confirm.Deduct:	If the Patron confirmed the order and selected payment by payroll deduction, the system shall issue a payment request to the Payroll System.
Order.Pay.Confirm.OK:	If the payment request is accepted, the system shall display a message confirming acceptance of the order with the payroll deduction transaction number.
Order.Pay.Confirm.NG:	If the payment request is rejected, the system shall display a message with the reason for the rejection. The Patron shall either cancel the order, or change the payment method to cash and request to pick up the order at the cafeteria.
Order.Done:	When the Patron has confirmed the order, the system shall do the following as a single transaction:
Order.Done.Store	Assign the next available meal order number to the meal and store the meal order with an initial status of “Accepted.”
Order.Done.Inventory:	Send a message to the Cafeteria Inventory System with the number of units of each food item in the order.
Order.Done.Menu:	Update the menu for the current order’s order date to reflect any items that are now out of stock in the cafeteria inventory.
Order.Done.Times:	Update the remaining available delivery times for the date of this order.
Order.Done.Patron:	Send an e-mail message to the Patron with the meal order and meal payment information.
Order.Done.Cafeteria:	Send an e-mail message to the Cafeteria Staff with the meal order information.
Order.Done.Failure:	If any step of Order.Done fails, the system shall roll back the transaction and notify the user that the order was unsuccessful, along with the reason for failure.
Order.Previous.Period:	The system shall permit the Patron to view any meals he has ordered within the previous six months. [Priority = Medium]
Order.Previous.Reorder:	The Patron may reorder any meal he had ordered within the previous six months, provided that all food items in that order are available on the menu for the meal date. [Priority = Medium]
[functional requirements for changing and canceling meal orders are not provided in this example]
3.2 Create, View, Modify, and Delete Meal Subscriptions
[details not provided in this example]
3.3 Register for Meal Payment Options
[details not provided in this example]
3.4 Request Meal Delivery
[details not provided in this example]
3.5 Create, View, Modify, and Delete Cafeteria Menus
[details not provided in this example]
4. External Interface Requirements
4.1 User Interfaces
UI-1:	The Cafeteria Ordering System screen displays shall conform to the Process Impact Internet Application User Interface Standard, Version 2.0 [4].
UI-2:	The system shall provide a help link from each displayed HTML page to explain how to use that page.
UI-3:	The Web pages shall permit complete navigation and food item selection using the keyboard alone, in addition to using mouse and keyboard combinations.
4.2 Hardware Interfaces
No hardware interfaces have been identified.
4.3 Software Interfaces
SI-1:	Cafeteria Inventory System
SI-1.1:	The COS shall transmit the quantities of food items ordered to the Cafeteria Inventory System through a programmatic interface.
SI-1.2:	The COS shall poll the Cafeteria Inventory System to determine whether a requested food item is available.
SI-1.3:	When the Cafeteria Inventory System notifies the COS that a specific food item is no longer available, the COS shall remove that food item from the menu for the current date.

SI-2:	Payroll System
	The COS shall communicate with the Payroll System through a programmatic interface for the following operations:
SI-2.1:	To allow a Patron to register for payroll deduction.
SI-2.2:	To allow a Patron to unregister for payroll deduction.
SI-2.3:	To check whether a patron is registered for payroll deduction.
SI-2.4:	To submit a payment request for a purchased meal.
SI-2.5:	To reverse all or part of a previous charge because a patron rejected a meal or wasn’t satisfied with it, or because the meal was not delivered per the confirmed delivery instructions.
4.4 Communications Interfaces
CI-1:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall send an e-mail message to the Patron to confirm acceptance of an order, price, and delivery instructions.
CI-2:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall send an e-mail message to the Patron to report any problems with the meal order or delivery after the order is accepted.
5. Other Nonfunctional Requirements
5.1 Performance Requirements
PE-1:	The system shall accommodate 400 users during the peak usage time window of 8:00am to 10:00am local time, with an estimated average session duration of 8 minutes.
PE-2:	All Web pages generated by the system shall be fully downloadable in no more than 10 seconds over a 40KBps modem connection.
PE-3: 	Responses to queries shall take no longer than 7 seconds to load onto the screen after the user submits the query.
PE-4: 	The system shall display confirmation messages to users within 4 seconds after the user submits information to the system.
5.2 Safety Requirements
No safety requirements have been identified.
5.3 Security Requirements
SE-1:	All network transactions that involve financial information or personally identifiable information shall be encrypted per BR-33.
SE-2:	Users shall be required to log in to the Cafeteria Ordering System for all operations except viewing a menu.
SE-3:	Patrons shall log in according to the restricted computer system access policy per BR-35.
SE-4:	The system shall permit only cafeteria staff members who are on the list of authorized Menu Managers to create or edit menus, per BR-24.
SE-5:	Only users who have been authorized for home access to the corporate Intranet may use the COS from non-company locations.
SE-6:	The system shall permit Patrons to view only their own previously placed orders, not orders placed by other Patrons.
5.4 Software Quality Attributes
Availability-1:	The Cafeteria Ordering System shall be available to users on the corporate Intranet and to dial-in users 99.9% of the time between 5:00am and midnight local time and 95% of the time between midnight and 5:00am local time.
Robustness-1:	If the connection between the user and the system is broken prior to an order being either confirmed or canceled, the Cafeteria Ordering System shall enable the user to recover an incomplete order.
